
IF-SEGA / 98 (I･Oデータ)

Interface for SEGA SATURN peripheral equipment made by Sega Enterprises
board.PnP compatible.Also supports DirextX5.

Supported devices: PC-9821 Xa10, Xa12, Xa13, Xa16, Xa20, Xb10, Xc13, Xc16,
Xc200, Xt13, Xt16, Xv13, Xv20, Cb10, Cx3, Cx13, V10, V12, V13, V16,
V20, V166, V200, V233, Ra18, Ra20, RaII23, RaII26, St15, St20
Supported OS: Japanese Windows 95
Supported API: DirecxInput
SEGA Saturn port number: 2 ports
Supported SEGA Saturn Peripherals:
○ Digital joystick
　Sega Saturn Standard Control Pad, Virtual-Stick, Virtua
Stick pro, twin stick, multi controller (digital
Mode) etc
○ Analog joystick
　Mission stick, racing controller, multi controller
(Digital mode) etc
○ Mouse
　We cope with mouse "shuttle mouse" for Sega Saturn (as software supports
　Need to be)
○ Multi terminal 6
　Supports SEGA Saturn 6 Player Adapter "Multi Terminal 6".
　I / O data driver connects multi terminal 6 to either 1P / 2P side
　It works without any problem.However, when two multi terminals 6 are connected,
　The stick number changes.Below, Multi-terminal 6 connection destination ■ 1P side
　Joystick number ■ In order of 2P joystick number:
1P side ■ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 7
2P side ■ 1 ■ 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
1P, 2P both ■ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 ■ 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12
※ The virtual gan and Saturn keyboard can not be connected to this I / F.

Use I / O port = Use 16 consecutive bytes (xxx0h to xxxFh), I / O address
Is automatically set by PnP function.
Power supply voltage and current = +5 V, 40 mA (MAX: when two multi-controllers are connected)
Temperature and humidity = temperature: 0 to 40 °, humidity: 20 to 80% (no condensation)

・ Before installing board
Device Manager-> Sound, Video and Game Controller
Go to Game Port Joystick.
(1) In the case of no mark Windows 95, OSR1 (equivalent)
In "Use Device" of the game port joystick property screen
Uncheck "Original Configuration (in use)".
(2) In the case of OSR2
In "Use Device" of the game port joystick property screen
Check "Disable in this hardware environment".
-----------
"Game port joystick" on the system properties screen
Make sure that the × mark is attached.
Finally, turn off the power of the main unit and attach the board.

・ Notes on driver installation
(1) In the case of no mark Windows 95, OSR1 (equivalent)
New hardware screen that appears after Windows 95 starts
Select the driver provided by the manufacturer of the IF-SEGA / 98 support software FD
Install the driver from.
(2) In the case of OSR2
If the "Version conflict" screen is displayed after copying the driver file,
Click "Yes".

・ Confirmation work after installation
Device Manager "Sound, Video, and Game Controller"
Double click and yellow at the top of IF-SEGA / 98!Not marked
Make sure.Also, in the "resource" of the "IF-SEGA / 98 Properties" screen, the conflict
Make sure there is no device to do.If there is a resource conflict, there is a conflict
Change the resources of other devices, or select "System Properties"
Click the "Resources" tab of IF-SEGA / 98 and check "Auto-configure"
Remove the I / O port value on the IF-SEGA / 98 side in the "Edit I / O port address" screen.
change.No need to reboot after change.
After installation, undo any changes made in the pre-board installation process.

・ Joystick registration / adjustment / test
(1) When a joystick icon is added to the control panel
Double-click the joystick icon in the [Register] control panel
Then select "SEGA SATURN PAD" in the "Joystick Setting" item.
When using multiple joysticks, register as many as you like.After registration
Reboot.
Double-click the IF-SEGA icon in the [Adjustment] control panel,
Click the "Adjust" button in the "Controller Adjustment" item.It is just registered
All joystick adjustment tasks are complete.
Connect the [Test] control pad etc.
I want to double-click the "Joystick" icon and check the operation
Select the joystick and click the "Test" button.+ Mark upper left
If the joystick is not properly adjusted, such as being biased
Perform readjustment after rebooting.
(2) When a game controller is added to the control panel (DirectX
If a new joystick driver such as is installed)
Double-click the game controller icon on the [Register] control panel
Click and click the "Add" button to use as many
Register the stick.In this case, the ID number is displayed on the "game controller"
Although it is not done, it is noted that ID numbers are actually assigned sequentially from the bottom.
Click the "Details" tab to display the assigned controller ID
It is done.Restart after registration.
Double-click the IF-SEGA icon in the [Adjustment] control panel,
Click the "Adjust" button in the "Controller Adjustment" item.It is just registered
All joystick adjustment tasks are complete.
Connect the [Test] control pad etc.
I want to double-click the "Joystick" icon and check the operation
Select the joystick and click the "Test" button.+ Mark
If the joystick is not properly adjusted, such as being biased to the upper left
Make a readjustment after reboot.

・ Board setting
Double-click the IF-SEGA icon to set IF-SEGA / 98.
(1) "Adjustment" tab
The center axis of the cursor button is upper left, such as immediately after the joystick is registered
When set to, press the "Adjust" button.Connect once you press
All joysticks are adjusted.
(2) "Button settings" tab
Use the default setting when placing the button on the game side.Change
If you want to set in order of the screen number.The following points to note:
"2. "3 buttons (X, Y, Z)" of registered buttons
X, Y, and Z are each easy to use with standard control pad etc.
Assigned to A, B, C continuous fire button, only to button 4 of Windows 95 standard specification
The START button is assigned to button 4 for unsupported software.
"3. In addition to buttons, you can also select the X, Y, L, and R axes in the button
Inverse function can be set for this.
The "continuous fire function" uses asynchronous software continuous fire, so it has the highest speed
Depending on the game, you may not get 32 fires even if you select 32 fires of,
Even in that case, it is possible to realize the fastest fire in the game.
In the "Reverse function", when combined with the continuous fire function, the button must be pressed
The button will always fire continuously (when the button is pressed the fire stops).
(3) "ID assignment" tab
About "Twin Stick Mode":
Two joysticks, such as SEGA's "VIRTUAL ON" "2JOYSTICKS mode"
Connected to Windows 95 and made to work the same as a twin stick
Select to play a game etc. with a real twin stick. One
The twin stick works as two joysticks.
In this case, "SEGA" or "game controller"
It is necessary to register two "SATURN PAD".
A game that supports twin stick connection to Sega interface
Do not use this function as it may cause a malfunction.
When the twin stick mode is specified, the button settings such as the continuous shooting function are automatic
It becomes invalid.
In games that do not support twin sticks, the controller button is
Enable twin stick mode as it may not function properly
Do not do.

Joystick other than Sega ・ Enterprises company is a sound blaster
If you install IF-SEGA / 98 in an environment connected to
Sega Enterprises by using a standard joystick driver
Other joysticks may not be recognized.In this case, the device
Disable IF-SEGA / 98 in the manager (red x mark is displayed),
Restart your DirectX 5 installation.Then it appeared anew on the control panel
Double-click the "Game Controller" icon and
Register and check the "Device use" item in IF-SEGA / 98,
Add IF-SEGA / 98 to "Game Controller" in Control Panel (Already registered
If it has been deleted then add it once).Perform operation check with the restart chairperson.
If the controller does not work, you can set the input device in the game.
Change to stick etc.
Multi controller with no butterfly shift of racing controller
All controllers in some games, such as LR not being an analog input
Sometimes you can not use.

