
LHA-301, LHA-301A (Logitec)

Multi-vendor compatible C bus SMIT transfer SCSI board.The shape of the SCSI connector is
Amphenol half 50 pin for LHA-301, D sub 50 pin for LHA-301A.
PnP compatible.High res mode not supported.SCSI BIOS ROM revision 1.07
Up to 32GB HDD can be used later.In fact, I am free
Recognized capacity of this board of BIOS ROM 1.07 using software e10chk.exe
We examined the upper limit of the result, and the result of 8GB correspondence was obtained.
Epson's MS-DOS / Windows 95 can not use 4GB or more HDDs.BIOS ROM
Movement of the area is prohibited. CPUs (16-bit CPU) equipped with 80286 or earlier and PC-386
Not available for initial types.More than BIOS ROM on board on MS-DOS
Includes SCSI accelerator driver that enables high-speed data transfer
(Be sure to include this on Windows 3.1).Three jumpers on the board
There are 2 switches.

In non-PnP environment, BIOS ROM address, interrupt level, DMA channel,
The transfer method is displayed when pressing and holding the [CTRL] + [L] key when the main unit is started
Set by setup menu.MO mode is valid only for MS-DOS.
"Virtual ID" means the ID number of the SCSI device whose ID number can not be changed
Function (the true ID number is in the Connect field of window 2)
Virtual ID numbers are displayed in the ID column).Virtual ID Function
Use is not recommended.

The method of starting the automatic analysis utility is as follows:
"Logitec LHA-301 SCSI BIOS Verx.xx Initializing ..." in the upper left of the screen
When is displayed, press and hold the [CTRL] + [GRPH] + [L] keys.In the upper left of the screen
A list of SCSI ID numbers and SCSI devices is displayed, and [analyze on] is displayed below it.
Release the key when it is displayed.
When starting up the automatic analysis utility and registering parameters,
Another HDD is connected to the HDD whose parameter is registered to the registered ID number
And the automatic analysis utility is started at system startup.

・ Three jumper switch SW1: Always 2-3 short circuit

・ 3 jumper switch SW2: switching between PnP mode and 55 compatible mode
　1-2 short circuit 55 compatible mode
　2-3 short circuit ■ PnP mode (when used with Windows 95/98 / NT)
　Performance is the same in both modes.

