
Video pack 98n (analog RGB scan converter SCN-4-98N)
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　(Computer Technica)

With PC-9801 NS / E, NC, NS / T, NA, NA / C, NS / R, fast battery (PC-9801N-11)
Exclusive use scan converter.Output the screen of the above model to a TV, or
Make it possible to record toPC-9801NC, NA, NA / C with AC adapter included
In addition, PC-9801N-12 or PC-9801N-12L is required.When the PC is powered on
When the AC adapter is connected to this unit, the power of the PC is automatically turned off. In this case, this unit
After unplugging the AC adapter from and reinserting it, turn on the power of the main unit.
Power consumption is DC14V, 300mA. Be sure to connect the AC adapter when using this machine.Battery powered
Is not possible.In addition, the current that can be supplied from the PC's 110-pin extension bus for use with this unit is 200 mA. Note
After using this machine, unplug the AC adapter.
The screen may not be stable for about 30 seconds after the power is turned on.Also before turning on the power of the PC
When displaying the output from this unit on a TV screen, a screen with meaninglessness is displayed, but this is
This is because the unit has not received an image signal from the PC, and if the power of the PC is turned on
A normal screen is displayed.
Temperature and humidity conditions are 10 to 35 ° C, 20 to 80% (without condensation), and if the ambient temperature is too high
The screen may not be output.
If synchronization can not be achieved, adjust the TV sync adjustment knob.

Seeing from the back, from the left: AD ADJ., DOT PHASE, S-OUT, C-OUT, DC-IN.

・ AD ADJ .: AD adjustment volume
　For adjusting the input level of video signal from PC.Turn clockwise to brighten the screen,
　The screen gets darker when turned counterclockwise.Also when there is noise or flicker on the screen
　(It is effective in the case of intermediate color display), when it is reduced by adjusting this volume
　(With raster interpolation function).
・ DOT PHASE: Dot phase adjustment switch
　For adjusting the phase of the video signal from the PC.Dot deviation on the screen due to individual differences of the PC body
　If this happens, adjusting this switch will alleviate it.In addition, the temperature inside the machine rises
　Adjust this switch even if the display screen is shifted diagonally.
・ S-OUT: Y / C separate video output
　Connected to Y / C separated video input (S terminal) such as video monitor and video deck.
・ C-OUT: Composite video output
　Connected to composite video input (C terminal) such as video monitor and video deck.
※ It is recommended to use Y / C separate video output from the point of image quality.
・ DC-IN: AC adapter connection terminal
　Connect the AC adapter supplied with the PC.However, for PC-9801NC, NA, NA / C, AC supplied with the main unit
　It is necessary to connect an adapter and connect separately PC-9801N-12 or PC-9801N-12L to this unit.

CHARGE LED display when this unit is connected, 1st battery display on the 98NOTE menu screen, 2nd battery
Charging is as follows:
NS / E, NS / T, NS / R ■ ■ ■ not fully charged ■ not charged
NC ■ OFF or orange ■ Fully charged ■ Charged
NC, NA / C ■ Flashing red ■ Abnormality (meaning that 1st battery is not connected properly) ■ Not charged
※ Charging is not performed when using this unit.

